
tabSRMM event notifications (also known as "popups"
---------------------------------------------------

Beginning with 0.9.9.95, tabSRMM has its own event notification system 
built into the plugin. It can use the following ways to announce incoming
messages:

1) popups (need popup.dll installed - I suggest using a recent version of
   popup PLUS).
   
2) On Screen Display (OSD). You can either use wbOSD or the old OSD plugin 
   - both available on the miranda file listing.
   
3) Balloon (system tray) tooltips. Only available on Windows 2000 or 
   later.
   
Configuration of event notifications is done on the "Message Sessions >
Event Popups" page. Most options should be familar if you have ever been
using a NewEventNotify plugin.

The "announce method" specifies in which way you want to see the event
notifications (popups, osd or balloon tooltips). The combo box will only
contain entries which are available (the necessary plugin is installed and
detected).


If you have choosen that you want to see notifications, even if a message
window is already open (UNCHECK "Don't announce event when message dialog 
is open"), you can further configure that on a "per container" base. You
can find these options on the containers menu bar (Container->Event 
popups")

The relevant options are:
-------------------------

1) Enable popups if minimized
   The container and all its tabs will show popups if the container has
   been minimized to the taskbar.
   
2) Enable popups if unfocused
   More aggressive popup behaviour. Now, you will always see event popups
   unless the container is in the foreground (active and focused).
   
3) Always enable popups for inactive tabs.
   This is the most aggressive setting. You will always see popups, UNLESS
   the container is focused (in the foreground) and the tab which received
   the event is the active one (selected).
   
The last option will basically show you popups for all your open sessions, 
except for the session which is active (in the foreground).

You can set default values for these under Options->Message containers 
which will apply to containers at creation time. Once a container exists, 
it has its own copy of these settings, so if you need to change them, you 
will have to use the container settings dialog (right click the title- or 
button bar of an open container or use the system menu and choose 
"Container Options".

