
tabSRMM, POPUP and NewEventNotify, how it works all together...
---------------------------------------------------------------

This document will try to explain how this stuff works and what you can 
configure in conjunction with it.

First, you need to use the NewEventNotify.DLL which comes with the tabSRMM 
distribution. Standard NewEventNotify will not work at all, because it was 
not written with tabs in mind and assumes that each message session has 
its own toplevel window.

If you want typing notify popups, you can safely use the 
TypingNotify plugin by BiO, because it is already written to use the 
service function provided by tabSRMM for finding an open message session 
(actually, BiO suggested this function and I built it into tabSRMM).

tabSRMM provides several options to configure popup behaviour. The default 
setting will work as always - you do not get popups if a message session 
has been openend for the specific contat. Neiter NEN nor TypingNotify will 
display a popup, because the service function reports an open window to 
them.

There are, however, ways to tell the tabSRMM service when it should report 
open sessions and when it should not. All these options can be configured 
independently for each container, but you can specify default values if 
you wish.

The relevant options are:

1) Enable popups if minimized
   The container and all its tabs will show popups if the container has
   been minimized to the taskbar.
   
2) Enable popups if unfocused
   More aggressive popup behaviour. Now, you will always see event popups
   unless the container is in the foreground (active and focused).
   
3) Always enable popups for inactive tabs.
   This is the most aggressive setting. You will always see popups, UNLESS
   the container is focused (in the foreground) and the tab which received
   the event is the active one (selected).
   
The last option will basically show you popups for all your open sessions, 
except for the session which is active (in the foreground).

You can set default values for these under Options->Message containers 
which will apply to containers at creation time. Once a container exists, 
it has its own copy of these settings, so if you need to change them, you 
will have to use the container settings dialog (right click the title- or 
button bar of an open container or use the system menu and choose 
"Container Options".


